#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Letter of Intention for Doctorate Degree
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tugcem Oral
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The most enchanting part of computer engineering is actualizing all imaginations
 and ideas.
 When it is combined with endless creativity and thinking, no one can imagine
 what will come out.
 Also, in contrast to other diciplines such as electronics or civil engineering,
 computer engineering has slight limits and almost no restrictions.
 Thinking that the only limit is the ideas, one can never think that working
 on this area is sufficient.
 When I consider my undergraduate and graduate studies, I can clearly specify
 that I gained the ability to search and learn things by myself and working
 individually as well as with teams.
 Also my studies gave me experience, basic and advanced knowledge about
 computer science and fundamentals of engineering.
 However, I think a deeper study is required to enlarge such a perspective
 for this area and become a qualified engineer and researcher.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since I begun my graduate study in METU, I have been working as a software
 engineer.
 This experience gave me great opportunity to observe what is really going
 on in software industry and how academic researches can be combined with
 it.
 I tried to use novel and new academic methods from most of disciplines
 I took in industrial projects and this effort to combine academical and
 industrial life always keeps my attention live on researching.
 The actual reason why I want to keep on going to Doctorate is this inclination.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In my graduate thesis, I come up with a novel path planning algorithm in
 the light of the knowledge of my advisor, Faruk Polat.
 This algorithm can be used by mobile agents in 
\emph on
dynamic
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
unknown
\emph default
 virtual environments where agents goal is to traverse from an initial location
 to a target one.
 However, only finding the shortest path can not be applied to many real-life
 search problems.
 Thus, this could not be 
\emph on
the
\emph default
 
\emph on
only constraint
\emph default
, there may exist at least two or more constraint to optimize.
 For example, both finding the shortest and the safest path in a threat-based
 environment among threats could be a scenario to consider.
 The multi-objectivity covers more realistic problems with respect to single-obj
ectivity.
 Thus, we focus on this problem and expand problem space in multi-objective
 perspective.
 The results and performance of algorithm is compared with a very common
 multi-objective path planner algorithm, MOA*, and great performance differences
 are observed especially in dynamic unknown environments.
 We sent a conference paper of this study to Intelligent Agent Technology
 (IAT 2012
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
http://www.fst.umac.mo/wic2012/IAT/
\end_layout

\end_inset

) Conference and we are expecting an acceptance.
 The front page of sent paper is also attached to this letter.
 Currently, I am trying to finalize my thesis document and I will give my
 defense as soon as possible.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since, research areas in computer science develop rapidly and there is much
 more work to do, I want to continue my graduate studies in doctorate and
 grow my experience and knowledge in order to research and solve more complicate
d real-life problems.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
