#LyX 1.6.5 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Motivation & Problem Definition
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Tugcem Oral
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Path-planning algorithms on 2D or 3D virtual environment can be diversed
 into many different topics - say categories.
 (EA based - Classic (CS based) / offline - online algorithms / pursuiting
 a target - consider more than one criteria through a specific target -
 consider both situations / etc...
 ).
 We must give the basic ideas of each category, cite related studies and
 finally concentrate on multi-objectivity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Especially in gaming world (say virtual environments), it is desired from
 system concepts - 
\emph on
agents
\emph default
 (opponents, enemies, threads - differs with respect to the domain) to behave
 
\emph on
intelligently
\emph default
.
 This intelligence attracts players' attention because of enhancing interactivit
y and gameplay 
\series bold
(The importance of intelligence should be concerned on specified domain
 - later)
\series default

\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Bold sentences are comments about their ancestors
\end_layout

\end_inset

.
 In 2D or 3D environments, one of the most crucial indicator of intelligence
 is navigation.
 Agents should move from one predefined place to another one
\emph on
 -intelligently
\emph default
- that they should plan and design their path by considering several constraints
 at the same time.
 As an example, these constraints should be planning a path which is shortest
 and thread-safe 
\series bold
(some risky situations might be acceptable)
\series default
 to the target.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are many both well accepted 
\series bold
(cite a*, multi objective a*, etc...)
\series default
 and newish, complexity based methods 
\series bold
(cite new-published papers)
\series default
 to solve multi objectivity issues of path planning problems.
 These new-published algorithms are generally built as an extension of cult
 algorithms such as A* and consider execution time and complexity.
 A 
\emph on
basic 
\emph default
and 
\emph on
faster 
\emph default
algorithm is much more suitable for real-life problems when matching them
 to virtual environments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Observing the importance of time and space complexities of path planning
 algorithms, we decide to concentrate on coming up a better idea when several
 constraints are considered to be achieved 
\series bold
(the criterias must be defined and kept constant?)
\series default
.
 In this study 
\series bold
(or thesis)
\series default
, we try focus on a new algorithm which overcomes the issues of multi-objective
 path planning problems in timely manner.
 This algorithm should be optimal (or yield satisfiable 
\emph on
suboptimal
\emph default
 results) and complete.
 It must be compared with well known and new published, well defined (has
 space and time complexity as an idea) search algorithms and results should
 be visualized.
\begin_inset Foot
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This document is only scratches of a self-brainstorm and it must be extended!
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
