#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Paragraph
Introduction:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hi everyone, I'm Tugcem.
 Today i'll talk about my thesis topic.
 Currently i am working on multi-objective path planning in virtual environments
 with Faruk Polat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Outline:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Before beginning, i'd like to introduce the outline of presentation.
 First of all, i will give the motivation and the definition of the thesis
 that why we are getting deal with this problem.
 Then, I will give some related studies about this area.
 After, I will get into dynamics of the topic and elaborate the problem.
 I will consider about the boundaries and concepts of thesis.
 Then, I'll give what we have done so far, in which phase we are, and further
 to-do list.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
The Basic Concepts:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First of all, I want to give the basic concepts we are dealing with on this
 study.
 The path planning is basically a process that an agent or an intelligent
 structure finds a way out from initial location to a target one.
 We can diverse path planning into two main categories.
 The first one is offline planning, which is not bounded by a time period.
 The planning process is executed and the optimal paths are generated on
 offline time.
 After one or more optimal paths are found, the path is used to reach to
 the target.
 This method could be used on static environments.
 However, if we want to have a more realistic solution, we must consider
 real-time dynamics.
 The online path planning provides this constraint that the planned path
 changes on runtime according to evironment dynamics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The other concept we are thinking over on this study is multi-objectivity.
 Single-objectivity oriented path planning considers only one constraint
 that could be the shortest or the easiest path.
 But this concept is again could not provide a realistic modeling of real-life
 problems.
 Actually, almost all of the real world problems contains more than one
 constraint.
 Thus, we consider more than one constraints while finding a path.
 The comparison between two solituons can be done via domination of these
 solutions to each other.
 The formulisation of this domination is another issue.
 Some constraints could conflict, so we need to think about all of them
 at the same time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The third concept is thinking about a target which moves intelligently or
 unintelligently.
 This brings the pursuit operation into domain.
 The agent should re-generate its path according to target's movements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
The Problem Definition:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So far, we have seen the basic concepts of this study.
 The general problem can be simplified such that we must find valid paths
 through a moving target with several constraints in a dynamic environment.
 Of course, environmental properties and restrictions matter on finding
 the solution for this problem.
 When we try to organize all of these aspects in the same problem, it is
 inevitable to encounter with some issues like complexity of algorithm,
 consumed time to find the solution and the resources that consumed.
 Actually, time complexity could be the most significant issue among all
 of these problems (issues).
 Thus, we are trying to come up to a new algorithm that covers all of these
 aspects and considers the time manner at the same time.
 That means our algorithm should run fast - according to existing solutions-
 
\series bold
Note: 
\series default
Should be extended.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Related Studies:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So, lets look into some related work around this research area.
 Actually, we could seperate these studies into 3 main captions.
 The first one centers on multi-objectivity concept while finding optimal
 paths.
 The second one centers on pursuit and chasing of a moving target.
 The third one simulates alternative scenarios and solutions around similar
 concepts.
 I wont give into details of these studies but just explain their methods
 briefly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph*
Multiobjective-based:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Guo and others handles multi-objective path planning (MOPP) for the ball
 and plate system.
 The environment is represented by distance map (the euclidean distances
 between initial and target cells) and hazard map (which represents possible
 collisions between the ball and the obstacles).
 They use entropy method to calculate weights of objectives for each grid
 node.
 Simply, Dijkstra algorithm is employed as a solution.
 In simulation results, the path obtained by multi-objective method is much
 safer compared with single-objective A* algorithm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tarapata presents selected multi-objective approaches to shortest path problems
 in his paper.
 He gives a classification of multi-objective shortest path (MOSP) problems.
 and discuss different models of them.
 He uses terrain based grid network and use modified Dijkstra’s algorithm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mitchell and his team examine the problem of planning a path through a low
 dimensional continuous state space subject to upper bounds on several additive
 cost metrics.
 They propose an auxiliary partial differential equation with which they
 evaluate multiple additive cost metrics for paths which are generated.
 The paper has heavy mathematical notations hard to follow.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph*
Moving-target:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Goldberg and others use multi-agent systems to pursue and capture the moving
 target in a virtual environment.
 Agents are allowed to communicate with each other if they are within their
 sight-area.
 Environment is a 
\emph on
m x n 
\emph default
grid with randomly-placed obstacles, all agents and the target knows the
 topology of the world.
 They target is positioned at the middle of the grid and all the agents
 are placed at the lower left corner of the grid at initial.
 At least one of the agents can 
\emph on
see 
\emph default
the target.
 The objective is catching the target in the minimum number of movement.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hollinger et al.
 concentrate on finding a moving, non-adversarial, known motion modelled
 target using multiple agents.
 non-adversarial, known motion modeled target using multiple agents (robotic
 searchers) in a closed virtual environment.
 They define this as Multi-robot Efficient Search Path Planning (MESPP)
 problem.
 These typical problems are NP-hard and number of searchers increase the
 solution space exponentially.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In moving target context, Koneig and his team publish several papers after
 2009.
 They extend A* by covering moving targets and they present D* and D*lite
 algorithms.
 They are really efficient incremental search algorithms.
 Actually, we will go through these algorithms on our study.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subparagraph*
Other Methods:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are also several other methods center on multiobjective path planning
 problem.
 These methods are generally evolutinary methods.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Pangilinan and others introduce an evolutionary algorithm for multi-objective
 shortest path problem.
 Their algorithm is based on Strength Pareto Evolutionary Algorithm (SPEA2).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Castillo and others define a genetic 
\emph on
offline
\emph default
 point-to-point agent path planner to find valid paths towards target.
 They concentrate on two constraints which are path length and difficulty
 and use a 2D environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nasrollahy proposes a particle swarm optimization algorithm as a multi-agent
 search technique for a dynamic fully observable environment to minimize
 total path planning time while avoiding the local optimums.
 They try to optimize global best path through the goal position.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Aim of Thesis:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If we turn back into our study, I'd like to give the details of thesis topic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First of all, i try to give the boundaries and tradeoffs.
 In this thesis, we are trying come up with a Multi-objective real-time
 path planning algorithm.
 As multiobjectivity, this algorithm should accept not only two constraints
 but also n constraints.
 That means the formulation of constraints should be independent from constraint
 number.
 Also, the multiobjectivity brings the domination concept between solutions,
 which is used to determine which one is better.
 We also should formulate it well.
 On the other hand, we are dealing with a dynamic environment, so we time
 is an important issue for us.
 The algorithm should run fast and catch the target as soon as possible.
 Also, the dynamic environment brings the synchronization issue of domain
 concepts that this is another issue to handle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Right now, we are studying on the properties of virtual environment to develop
 the algorithm.
 First of all, we are using a 2D grid environment.
 This environment is partially observable to agent and of course, dynamic.
 That means other concepts should also be mobile or stationary.
 We assume that we know the initial location of target.
 
\series bold
(the target is stationary in a known location.
 As we progress, we will mobilize the target as well.)
\series default
 And as all you predict, we have several obstacles and threads to harden
 the planning process.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As obstacles, we think that they can be both stationary and mobile.
 Some of these obstacles are transitive that we can refer rivers or hills
 from real-world model.
 But of course they consumes much more energy.
 We also have intransitive obstacles, too.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We can simply say that threads in environment try to prevent the agent to
 catch the target.
 Each thread could be stationary, mobile, or both.
 Threads have zones and each zone has a probabity to shoot agent - 
\emph on
shot risk percent
\emph default
.
 Basically, the thread is more probable to shoot the agent if it is closer
 to the center point of thread.
 Threads neighter try to catch the agent nor pursuits it.
 They have a sight area and if they observe agent within this, they gain
 a probability to shoot agent.
 Mobile agents have a movement schedule and moves accordinly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The agent enacts the path planner role to navigate towards the target.
 It has a sight area that it can only observes the environment within this
 area.
 It only knows the observations within its sight area and the target location.
 Thus, it should re-plan its path in every time step if these information
 is updated.
 When it enters to a thread zone, it identifies the thread and gets the
 properties of it such as shot risk percent and movement schedule.
 The agent has a predefined life, so when a thread shoots the agent, its
 life decreases until reaches to zero.
 So the agent should try to find a riskless, shortest path with minimum
 life loss in a highly dynamic changing environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
What we have done, what are we doing and todo list:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So what have we done so far? First of all, we initialized our motivation.
 Then we examined related studies around this research topic and this helps
 to define the boundaries of working area.
 We formulate our problem and construct the basic structure of the algorithm.
 We reduce the problem into more simpler problems.
 Up to now, we are studying on a partially observable static environment.
 Then, we will try to evolve the algorithm with considering moving threads
 and finally we will include the mobilization of target to pursuit it.
 Also, all of the formal documentation of these steps are done.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the next milestone, we are planning to start to the implementation of
 simulation environment.
 While implementing, the core structures within algorithm will also develop.
 Also, environmental and conceptual properties will be defined more precisely.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Actually, we are at the very beginning of everything and we have a lot of
 work to do.
 First of all, we did not decide on a specific domain for test environment.
 Algorithm will grow by simulation environment.
 As we start with are reduced problem, we should also include the mobilization
 of threads and target as well.
 And also the formal documentation should be generated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is what i have done and will do for my thesis, thank you for listening.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
---
\series default
We must formulate the definitions and dynamics of the thesis.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
