#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "Introduction"

\end_inset

Hi everyone, I'm Tugcem.
 Today i'll talk about my thesis topic.
 Currently i am working on multi-objective path planning in virtual environments
 with Faruk Polat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "Outline"

\end_inset

Before beginning, i'd like to introduce the outline of presentation.
 First of all, i will give the motivation and the definition of the thesis
 that why we are getting deal with this problem.
 Then, I will give some related studies about this area.
 After, I will get into dynamics of the topic and elaborate the problem.
 I will consider about the boundaries and concepts of thesis.
 Then, I'll give what we have done so far, in which phase we are, and further
 to-do list.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "The Basic Concepts"

\end_inset

First of all, I want to give the basic concepts we are dealing with on this
 study.
 The path planning is basically a process that an agent or an intelligent
 structure finds a way out from initial location to a target one.
 We can diverse path planning into two main categories.
 The first one is offline planning, which is not bounded by a time period.
 The planning process is executed and the optimal paths are generated on
 offline time.
 After one or more optimal paths are found, the path is used to reach to
 the target.
 This method could be used on static environments.
 However, if we want to have a more realistic solution, we must consider
 real-time dynamics.
 The online path planning provides this constraint that the planned path
 changes on runtime according to evironment dynamics.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The other concept we are thinking over on this study is multi-objectivity.
 Single-objectivity oriented path planning considers only one constraint
 that could be the shortest or the easiest path.
 But this concept is again could not provide a realistic modeling of real-life
 problems.
 Actually, almost all of the real world problems contains more than one
 constraint.
 Thus, we consider more than one constraints while finding a path.
 The comparison between two solituons can be done via domination of these
 solutions to each other.
 The formulisation of this domination is another issue.
 Some constraints could conflict, so we need to think about all of them
 at the same time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The third concept is thinking about a target which moves intelligently or
 unintelligently.
 This brings the pursuit operation into domain.
 The agent should re-generate its path according to target's movements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset label
LatexCommand label
name "The Problem Definition"

\end_inset

So far, we have seen the basic concepts of this study.
 The general problem can be simplified such that we must find dynamic valid
 paths through a moving target with several constraints.
 Of course, environmental properties and restrictions matter on finding
 the solution for this problem.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
